Deployment concept update (#10615)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/guides/prefect-deploy.md

    subgraph Server ["<div style='width: 150px; text-align: center; margin-top: 5px;'>Prefect API</div>"]
        D("<div style='margin: 5px 10px 5px 5px;'>Deployment</div>"):::green
    end
    subgraph Remote Storage ["<div style='width: 160px; text-align: center; margin-top: 5px;'>Remote Storage</div>"]
        B("<div style='margin: 5px 6px 5px 5px;'>Flow</div>"):::yellow
    end
    subgraph Infrastructure ["<div style='width: 150px; text-align: center; margin-top: 5px;'>Infrastructure</div>"]
        G("<div style='margin: 5px 10px 5px 5px;'>Flow Run</div>"):::blue
    end

    A --> D
    D --> E("<div style='margin: 5px 10px 5px 5px;'>Worker</div>"):::red
    B -.-> E
    A -.-> B
    E -.-> G

    classDef gold fill:goldenrod,stroke:goldenrod,stroke-width:4px
    classDef yellow fill:gold,stroke:gold,stroke-width:4px
    classDef gray fill:lightgray,stroke:lightgray,stroke-width:4px
    classDef blue fill:blue,stroke:blue,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef green fill:green,stroke:green,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef red fill:red,stroke:red,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef dkgray fill:darkgray,stroke:darkgray,stroke-width:4px,color:white
```

> When creating a deployment, a user must answer *two* basic questions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a deployment, we must answer *two* basic questions:
```

> - What instructions does a [worker](/concepts/work-pools/) need to set up an execution environment for my workflow? For example, a workflow may have Python requirements, unique Kubernetes settings, or Docker networking configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What instructions does a [worker](/concepts/work-pools/) need to set up an execution environment for our workflow? 
For example, a workflow may have Python requirements, unique Kubernetes settings, or Docker networking configuration.
```

- How should the flow code be accessed?

A deployment additionally enables you to:

- Schedule flow runs.
- Specify event triggers for flow runs.
- Assign a work queue name to delegate deployment flow runs to work queues.

> - Assign one or more tags to organize your deployments and flow runs. You can use those tags as filters in the Prefect UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assign one or more tags to organize your deployments and flow runs. 
You can use those tags as filters in the Prefect UI.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm gonna keep this one as is.

- Assign custom parameter values for flow runs based on the deployment.
- Create ad-hoc flow runs from the API or Prefect UI.
- Upload flow files to a defined storage location for retrieval at run time.
- Specify run time infrastructure for flow runs, such as Docker or Kubernetes configuration.

## Managing Deployments

> You can manage your deployments with a `prefect.yaml` file that describes how to prepare one or more [flow deployments](/concepts/deployments/). At a high level, you simply add the following file to your working directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manage your deployments with a `prefect.yaml` file that describes how to prepare one or more [flow deployments](/concepts/deployments/). 
At a high level, you simply add the following file to your working directory:
```

The `prefect.yaml` file contains deployment configuration for deployments created from this file, default instructions for how to build and push any necessary code artifacts (such as Docker images), and default instructions for pulling a deployment in remote execution environments (e.g., cloning a GitHub repository).

Any deployment configuration can be overridden via options available on the `prefect deploy` CLI command when creating a deployment. 

The base structure for `prefect.yaml` is as follows:

```yaml
# generic metadata
prefect-version: null
name: null

# preparation steps
build: null
push: null

# runtime steps
pull: null

# deployment configurations
deployments:
  - # base metadata
    name: null
    version: null
    tags: []
    description: null
    schedule: null

    # flow-specific fields
    entrypoint: null
    parameters: {}

    # infra-specific fields
    work_pool:
      name: null
      work_queue_name: null
      job_variables: {}
```

> The metadata fields are always pre-populated for you and are currently for bookkeeping purposes only.  The other sections are pre-populated based on recipe; if no recipe is provided, Prefect will attempt to guess an appropriate one based on local configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metadata fields are always pre-populated for you and are currently for bookkeeping purposes only.  
The other sections are pre-populated based on recipe; if no recipe is provided, Prefect will attempt to guess an appropriate one based on local configuration.
```

> You can create deployments via the CLI command `prefect deploy` without ever needing to alter the `deployments` section of your `prefect.yaml` file — the `prefect deploy` command will help in deployment creation via interactive prompts. However, it is useful for version-controlling your deployments and managing multiple deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create deployments via the CLI command `prefect deploy` without ever needing to alter the `deployments` section of your `prefect.yaml` file — the `prefect deploy` command will help in deployment creation via interactive prompts. 
However, the `prefect.yaml` file is useful for version-controlling your deployments and managing multiple deployments.
```

### Deployment Actions

> Deployment actions defined in your `prefect.yaml` file control the lifecycle of the creation and execution of your deployments. The three actions available are `build`, `push`, and `pull`. `pull` is the only required deployment action — it is used to define how Prefect will pull your deployment in remote execution environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployment actions defined in your `prefect.yaml` file control the lifecycle of the creation and execution of your deployments. 
The three actions available are `build`, `push`, and `pull`. 
`pull` is the only required deployment action — it is used to define how Prefect will pull your deployment in remote execution environments.
```

Each action is defined as a list of steps that are executing in sequence.

Each step has the following format:

```yaml
section:
  - prefect_package.path.to.importable.step:
      id: "step-id" # optional
      requires: "pip-installable-package-spec" # optional
      kwarg1: value
      kwarg2: more-values
```

> Every step can optionally provide a `requires` field that Prefect will use to auto-install in the event that the step cannot be found in the current environment. Each step can also specify an `id` for the step which is used when referencing step outputs in later steps. The additional fields map directly onto Python keyword arguments to the step function.  Within a given section, steps always run in the order that they are provided within the `prefect.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every step can optionally provide a `requires` field that Prefect will use to auto-install in the event that the step cannot be found in the current environment. 
Each step can also specify an `id` for the step which is used when referencing step outputs in later steps. 
The additional fields map directly onto Python keyword arguments to the step function.  
Within a given section, steps always run in the order that they are provided within the `prefect.yaml` file.
```

!!! tip "Deployment Instruction Overrides"
    `build`, `push`, and `pull` sections can all be overridden on a per-deployment basis by defining `build`, `push`, and `pull` fields within a deployment definition in the `prefect.yaml` file.

    The `prefect deploy` command will use any `build`, `push`, or `pull` instructions provided in a deployment's definition in the `prefect.yaml` file.

    This capability is useful with multiple deployments that require different deployment instructions.

### The Build Action

> The build section of `prefect.yaml` is where any necessary side effects for running your deployments are built - the most common type of side effect produced here is a Docker image.  If you initialize with the docker recipe, you will be prompted to provide required information, such as image name and tag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build section of `prefect.yaml` is where any necessary side effects for running your deployments are built - the most common type of side effect produced here is a Docker image.  
If you initialize with the docker recipe, you will be prompted to provide required information, such as image name and tag:
```

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect init --recipe docker
>> image_name: < insert image name here >
>> tag: < insert image tag here >
```
</div>

!!! tip "Use `--field` to avoid the interactive experience"

>     We recommend that you only initialize a recipe when you are first creating your deployment structure, and afterwards store your configuration files within version control; however, sometimes you may need to initialize programmatically and avoid the interactive prompts.  To do so, provide all required fields for your recipe using the `--field` flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We recommend that you only initialize a recipe when you are first creating your deployment structure, and afterwards store your configuration files within version control. 
    However, sometimes you may need to initialize programmatically and avoid the interactive prompts.  
    To do so, provide all required fields for your recipe using the `--field` flag:
```

    <div class="terminal">
    ```bash
    $ prefect init --recipe docker \
        --field image_name=my-repo/my-image \
        --field tag=my-tag
    ```
    </div>

```yaml
build:
- prefect_docker.deployments.steps.build_docker_image:
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.0
    image_name: my-repo/my-image
    tag: my-tag
    dockerfile: auto
    push: true
```

> Once you've confirmed that these fields are set to their desired values, this step will automatically build a Docker image with the provided name and tag and push it to the repository referenced by the image name.  [As the documentation notes](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-docker/deployments/steps/#prefect_docker.deployments.steps.BuildDockerImageResult), this step produces a few fields that can optionally be used in future steps or within `prefect.yaml` as template values.  It is best practice to use `{{ image }}` within `prefect.yaml` (specifically the work pool's job variables section) so that you don't risk having your build step and deployment specification get out of sync with hardcoded values.  For a worked example, [check out the deployments tutorial](/guides/deployment/docker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've confirmed that these fields are set to their desired values, this step will automatically build a Docker image with the provided name and tag and push it to the repository referenced by the image name.  
[As the `prefect-docker` package documentation notes](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-docker/deployments/steps/#prefect_docker.deployments.steps.BuildDockerImageResult), this step produces a few fields that can optionally be used in future steps or within `prefect.yaml` as template values.  
It is best practice to use `{{ image }}` within `prefect.yaml` (specifically the work pool's job variables section) so that you don't risk having your build step and deployment specification get out of sync with hardcoded values.  
```

!!! note Some steps require Prefect integrations
    Note that in the build step example above, we relied on the `prefect-docker` package; in cases that deal with external services, additional packages are often required and will be auto-installed for you.

!!! tip "Pass output to downstream steps"
    Each deployment action can be composed of multiple steps.  For example, if you wanted to build a Docker image tagged with the current commit hash, you could use the `run_shell_script` step and feed the output into the `build_docker_image` step:

    ```yaml
    build:
        - prefect.deployments.steps.run_shell_script:
            id: get-commit-hash
            script: git rev-parse --short HEAD
            stream_output: false
        - prefect_docker.deployments.steps.build_docker_image:
            requires: prefect-docker
            image_name: my-image
            image_tag: "{{ get-commit-hash.stdout }}"
            dockerfile: auto
    ```

    Note that the `id` field is used in the `run_shell_script` step so that its output can be referenced in the next step.

### The Push Action

> The push section is most critical for situations in which code is not stored on persistent filesystems or in version control.  In this scenario, code is often pushed and pulled from a Cloud storage bucket of some kind (e.g., S3, GCS, Azure Blobs, etc.).  The push section allows users to specify and customize the logic for pushing this code repository to arbitrary remote locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The push section is most critical for situations in which code is not stored on persistent filesystems or in version control.  
In this scenario, code is often pushed and pulled from a Cloud storage bucket of some kind (e.g., S3, GCS, Azure Blobs, etc.).  
The push section allows users to specify and customize the logic for pushing this code repository to arbitrary remote locations.
```

For example, a user wishing to store their code in an S3 bucket and rely on default worker settings for its runtime environment could use the `s3` recipe:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect init --recipe s3
>> bucket: < insert bucket name here >
```
</div>

Inspecting our newly created `prefect.yaml` file we find that the `push` and `pull` sections have been templated out for us as follows:

```yaml
push:
  - prefect_aws.deployments.steps.push_to_s3:
      id: push-code
      requires: prefect-aws>=0.3.0
      bucket: my-bucket
      folder: project-name
      credentials: null

pull:
  - prefect_aws.deployments.steps.pull_from_s3:
      requires: prefect-aws>=0.3.0
      bucket: my-bucket
      folder: "{{ push-code.folder }}"
      credentials: null
```

> The bucket has been populated with our provided value (which also could have been provided with the `--field` flag); note that the `folder` property of the `push` step is a template - the `pull_from_s3` step outputs both a `bucket` value as well as a `folder` value that can be used to template downstream steps.  Doing this helps you keep your steps consistent across edits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bucket has been populated with our provided value (which also could have been provided with the `--field` flag).
Note that the `folder` property of the `push` step is a template - the `pull_from_s3` step outputs both a `bucket` value as well as a `folder` value that can be used to template downstream steps.  
Doing this helps you keep your steps consistent across edits.
```

As discussed above, if you are using [blocks](/concepts/blocks/), the credentials section can be templated with a block reference for secure and dynamic credentials access:

```yaml
push:
  - prefect_aws.deployments.steps.push_to_s3:
      requires: prefect-aws>=0.3.0
      bucket: my-bucket
      folder: project-name
      credentials: "{{ prefect.blocks.aws-credentials.dev-credentials }}"
```

> Anytime you run `prefect deploy`, this `push` section will be executed upon successful completion of your `build` section. For more information on the mechanics of steps, [see below](#deployment-mechanics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anytime you run `prefect deploy`, this `push` section will be executed upon successful completion of your `build` section. 
For more information on the mechanics of steps, [see below](#deployment-mechanics).
```

### The Pull Action

> The pull section is the most important section within the `prefect.yaml` file as it contains instructions for preparing your flows for a deployment run.  These instructions will be executed each time a deployment created within this folder is run via a worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pull section is the most important section within the `prefect.yaml` file as it contains instructions for preparing your flows for a deployment run.  
These instructions will be executed each time a deployment created within this folder is run via a worker.
```

There are three main types of steps that typically show up in a `pull` section:

- `set_working_directory`: this step simply sets the working directory for the process prior to importing your flow
- `git_clone`: this step clones the provided repository on the provided branch
- `pull_from_{cloud}`: this step pulls the working directory from a Cloud storage location (e.g., S3)

!!! tip "Use block and variable references"

>     All [block and variable references](#templating-options) within your pull step will remain unresolved until runtime and will be pulled each time your deployment is run. This allows you to avoid storing sensitive information insecurely; it also allows you to manage certain types of configuration from the API and UI without having to rebuild your deployment every time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    All [block and variable references](#templating-options) within your pull step will remain unresolved until runtime and will be pulled each time your deployment is run. 
    This allows you to avoid storing sensitive information insecurely.
    It also allows you to manage certain types of configuration from the API and UI without having to rebuild your deployment every time.
```

Below is an example of how to use an existing `GitHubCredentials` block to clone a private GitHub repository:

```yaml
pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
        repository: https://github.com/org/repo.git
        credentials: "{{ prefect.blocks.github-credentials.my-credentials }}"
```

> Alternatively, you can specify a `BitBucketCredentials` or `GitLabCredentials` block to clone from Bitbucket or GitLab. In lieu of a credentials block, you can also provide a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket token directly to the 'access_token` field. You can use a Secret block to do this securely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can specify a `BitBucketCredentials` or `GitLabCredentials` block to clone from Bitbucket or GitLab.
 Instead of a credentials block, you can provide a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket token directly to the 'access_token` field. 
 You can use a Secret block to do this securely:
```

```yaml
pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
        repository: https://bitbucket.org/org/repo.git
        access_token: "{{ prefect.blocks.secret.bitbucket-token }}"
```

### Utility Steps
Utility steps can be used within a build, push, or pull action to assist in managing the deployment lifecycle:

> - `run_shell_script` allows for the execution of one or more shell commands in a subprocess, and returns the standard output and standard error of the script. This is useful for scripts that require execution in a specific environment, or those which have specific input and output requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `run_shell_script` allows for the execution of one or more shell commands in a subprocess, and returns the standard output and standard error of the script. 
This step is useful for scripts that require execution in a specific environment, or those which have specific input and output requirements.
```

        expand_env_vars: true
    ```

    Without `expand_env_vars: true`, the above step would return a literal string `$USER` instead of the current user.

- `pip_install_requirements` installs dependencies from a `requirements.txt` file within a specified directory.

Below is an example of installing dependencies from a `requirements.txt` file after cloning:

```yaml
pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
        id: clone-step
        repository: https://github.com/org/repo.git
    - prefect.deployments.steps.pip_install_requirements:
        directory: {{ clone-step.directory }}
        requirements_file: requirements.txt
        stream_output: False
```

Below is an example that retrieves an access token from a 3rd party Key Vault and uses it in a private clone step:

```yaml
pull:
- prefect.deployments.steps.run_shell_script:
    id: get-access-token
    script: az keyvault secret show --name <secret name> --vault-name <secret vault> --query "value" --output tsv
    stream_output: false
- prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
    repository: https://bitbucket.org/samples/deployments.git
    branch: master
    access_token: "{{ get-access-token.stdout }}"
```

> You can also run custom steps by packaging them. In the example below, `retrieve_secrets` is a custom python module that has been packaged into the default working directory of a docker image (which is /opt/prefect by default). `main` is the function entry point, which returns an access token (e.g. `return {"access_token": access_token}`) like the preceding example, but utilizing the Azure Python SDK for retrieval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also run custom steps by packaging them. In the example below, `retrieve_secrets` is a custom python module that has been packaged into the default working directory of a Docker image (which is /opt/prefect by default). 
`main` is the function entry point, which returns an access token (e.g. `return {"access_token": access_token}`) like the preceding example, but utilizing the Azure Python SDK for retrieval.
```

```yaml
- retrieve_secrets.main:
    id: get-access-token
- prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
    repository: https://bitbucket.org/samples/deployments.git
    branch: master
    access_token: '{{ get-access-token.access_token }}'
```

### Templating Options

Values that you place within your `prefect.yaml` file can reference dynamic values in several different ways:

> - **step outputs**: every step of both `build` and `push` produce named fields such as `image_name`; you can reference these fields within `prefect.yaml` and `prefect deploy` will populate them with each call.  References must be enclosed in double brackets and be of the form `"{{ field_name }}"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **step outputs**: every step of both `build` and `push` produce named fields such as `image_name`.
You can reference these fields within `prefect.yaml` and `prefect deploy` will populate them with each call.  
References must be enclosed in double brackets and be of the form `"{{ field_name }}"`.
```

> - **blocks**: [Prefect blocks](/concepts/blocks) can also be referenced with the special syntax `{{ prefect.blocks.block_type.block_slug }}`; it is highly recommended that you use block references for any sensitive information (such as a GitHub access token or any credentials) to avoid hardcoding these values in plaintext

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **blocks**: [Prefect blocks](/concepts/blocks) can also be referenced with the special syntax `{{ prefect.blocks.block_type.block_slug }}`. It is highly recommended that you use block references for any sensitive information (such as a GitHub access token or any credentials) to avoid hardcoding these values in plaintext
```

> - **variables**: [Prefect variables](/concepts/variables) can also be referenced with the special syntax `{{ prefect.variables.variable_name }}`. Variables can be used to reference non-sensitive, reusable pieces of information such as a default image name or a default work pool name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **variables**: [Prefect variables](/concepts/variables) can also be referenced with the special syntax `{{ prefect.variables.variable_name }}`. 
Variables can be used to reference non-sensitive, reusable pieces of information such as a default image name or a default work pool name.
```

> - **environment variables**: you can also reference environment variables with the special syntax `{{ $MY_ENV_VAR }}`. This is especially useful for referencing environment variables that are set at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **environment variables**: you can also reference environment variables with the special syntax `{{ $MY_ENV_VAR }}`. 
This feature is especially useful for referencing environment variables that are set at runtime.
```

    tag: my-tag
    dockerfile: auto
    push: true

deployments:
  - # base metadata
    name: null
    version: "{{ build-image.tag }}"
    tags:
        - "{{ $my_deployment_tag }}"
        - "{{ prefect.variables.some_common_tag }}"
    description: null
    schedule: null

    # flow-specific fields
    entrypoint: null
    parameters: {}

    # infra-specific fields
    work_pool:
        name: "my-k8s-work-pool"
        work_queue_name: null
        job_variables:
            image: "{{ build-image.image }}"
            cluster_config: "{{ prefect.blocks.kubernetes-cluster-config.my-favorite-config }}"
```

So long as our `build` steps produce fields called `image_name` and `tag`, every time we deploy a new version of our deployment, the `{{ build-image.image }}` variable will be dynamically populated with the relevant values.

!!! note "Docker step"
    The most commonly used build step is [`prefect_docker.deployments.steps.build_docker_image`](/guides/deployment/docker/) which produces both the `image_name` and `tag` fields.

    For an example, [check out the deployments tutorial](/guides/deployment/docker/).
### Deployment Configurations

> Each `prefect.yaml` file can have multiple deployment configurations that control the behavior of created deployments. These deployments can be managed independently of one another, allowing you to deploy the same flow with different configurations in the same codebase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each `prefect.yaml` file can have multiple deployment configurations that control the behavior of created deployments. 
These deployments can be managed independently of one another, allowing you to deploy the same flow with different configurations in the same codebase.
```

### Working With Multiple Deployments

> Prefect supports multiple deployment declarations within the `prefect.yaml` file. This method of declaring multiple deployments allows the configuration for all deployments to be version controlled and deployed with a single command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefect supports multiple deployment declarations within the `prefect.yaml` file. 
This method of declaring multiple deployments allows the configuration for all deployments to be version controlled and deployed with a single command.
```

> New deployment declarations can be added to the `prefect.yaml` file by adding a new entry to the `deployments` list. Each deployment declaration must have a unique `name` field which is used to select deployment declarations when using the `prefect deploy` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New deployment declarations can be added to the `prefect.yaml` file by adding a new entry to the `deployments` list. 
Each deployment declaration must have a unique `name` field which is used to select deployment declarations when using the `prefect deploy` command.
```

For example, consider the following `prefect.yaml` file:

```yaml
build: ...
push: ...
pull: ...

deployments:
  - name: deployment-1
    entrypoint: flows/hello.py:my_flow
    parameters:
        number: 42,
        message: Don't panic!
    work_pool:
        name: my-process-work-pool
        work_queue_name: primary-queue

  - name: deployment-2
    entrypoint: flows/goodbye.py:my_other_flow
    work_pool:
        name: my-process-work-pool
        work_queue_name: secondary-queue

  - name: deployment-3
    entrypoint: flows/hello.py:yet_another_flow
    work_pool:
        name: my-docker-work-pool
        work_queue_name: tertiary-queue
```

> This file has three deployment declarations, each referencing a different flow. Each deployment declaration has a unique `name` field and can be deployed individually by using the `--name` flag when deploying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file has three deployment declarations, each referencing a different flow. 
Each deployment declaration has a unique `name` field and can be deployed individually by using the `--name` flag when deploying.
```

For example, to deploy `deployment-1` we would run:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --name deployment-1
```
</div>

To deploy multiple deployments you can provide multiple `--name` flags:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --name deployment-1 --name deployment-2
```
</div>

To deploy multiple deployments with the same name, you can prefix the deployment name with its flow name:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --name my_flow/deployment-1 --name my_other_flow/deployment-1
```
</div>

To deploy all deployments you can use the `--all` flag:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --all
```
</div>

!!! note "CLI Options When Deploying Multiple Deployments"
    When deploying more than one deployment with a single `prefect deploy` command, any additional attributes provided via the CLI will be ignored.

>     To provide overrides to a deployment via the CLI, you must deploy that deployment individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To provide overrides to a deployment via the CLI, you must deploy that deployment individually.
    
```

### Reusing Configuration Across Deployments

Because a `prefect.yaml` file is a standard YAML file, you can use [YAML aliases](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/#71-alias-nodes) to reuse configuration across deployments.

This functionality is useful when multiple deployments need to share the work pool configuration, deployment actions, or other configurations.

> You can declare a YAML alias by using the `&{alias_name}` syntax and insert that alias elsewhere in the file with the `*{alias_name}` syntax. When aliasing YAML maps, you can also override specific fields of the aliased map by using the `<<: *{alias_name}` syntax and adding additional fields below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can declare a YAML alias by using the `&{alias_name}` syntax and insert that alias elsewhere in the file with the `*{alias_name}` syntax. 
When aliasing YAML maps, you can also override specific fields of the aliased map by using the `<<: *{alias_name}` syntax and adding additional fields below.
```

| ---------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`                                         | The name of the work pool to schedule flow runs in for the deployment.                                                                                                                                    |
| <span class="no-wrap">`work_queue_name`</span> | The name of the work queue within the specified work pool to schedule flow runs in for the deployment. If not provided, the default queue for the specified work pool will be used.                       |
| `job_variables`                                | Values used to override the default values in the specified work pool's [base job template](/concepts/work-pools/#base-job-template). Maps directly to a created deployments `infra_overrides` attribute. |

## Deployment mechanics

> Anytime you run `prefect deploy`, the following actions are taken in order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anytime you run `prefect deploy` in a directory that contains a `prefect.yaml` file, the following actions are taken in order:
```

> - The `prefect.yaml` file is loaded. First, the `build` section is loaded and all variable and block references are resolved. The steps are then run in the order provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `prefect.yaml` file is loaded. 
First, the `build` section is loaded and all variable and block references are resolved. 
The steps are then run in the order provided.
```

> - Next, the `push` section is loaded and all variable and block references are resolved; the steps within this section are then run in the order provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Next, the `push` section is loaded and all variable and block references are resolved.
The steps within this section are then run in the order provided
```

> - Next, the `pull` section is templated with any step outputs but *is not run*.  Note that block references are _not_ hydrated for security purposes - block references are always resolved at runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Next, the `pull` section is templated with any step outputs but *is not run*.  
Note that block references are _not_ hydrated for security purposes - block references are always resolved at runtime
```

> - Next, all variable and block references are resolved with the deployment declaration.  All flags provided via the `prefect deploy` CLI are then overlaid on the values loaded from the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Next, all variable and block references are resolved with the deployment declaration.  
All flags provided via the `prefect deploy` CLI are then overlaid on the values loaded from the file.
```

- The final step occurs when the fully realized deployment specification is registered with the Prefect API

!!! tip "Deployment Instruction Overrides"
    The `build`, `push`, and `pull` sections in deployment definitions take precedence over the corresponding sections above them in `prefect.yaml`.

> Anytime a step is run, the following actions are taken in order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time a step is run, the following actions are taken in order:
```

> - The step's inputs and block / variable references are resolved (see [the templating documentation above](#templating-options) for more details)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The step's inputs and block / variable references are resolved (see [the templating documentation above](#templating-options) for more details).
```

> - The step's function is imported; if it cannot be found, the special `requires` keyword is used to install the necessary packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The step's function is imported. 
If it cannot be found, the special `requires` keyword is used to install the necessary packages.
```

> - The step's function is called with the resolved inputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The step's function is called with the resolved inputs.
```

> - The step's output is returned and used to resolve inputs for subsequent steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The step's output is returned and used to resolve inputs for subsequent steps
```
```suggestion
- The step's output is returned and used to resolve inputs for subsequent steps.
```

You can create deployments via the CLI command `prefect deploy` without ever needing to alter the `deployments` section of your `prefect.yaml` file — the `prefect deploy` command will help in deployment creation via interactive prompts. The `prefect.yaml` file facilitates version-controlling your deployment configuration and managing multiple deployments.

### Deployment Actions

Deployment actions defined in your `prefect.yaml` file control the lifecycle of the creation and execution of your deployments. 
The three actions available are `build`, `push`, and `pull`. 
`pull` is the only required deployment action — it is used to define how Prefect will pull your deployment in remote execution environments.

Each action is defined as a list of steps that are executing in sequence.

Each step has the following format:

```yaml
section:
  - prefect_package.path.to.importable.step:
      id: "step-id" # optional
      requires: "pip-installable-package-spec" # optional
      kwarg1: value
      kwarg2: more-values
```

> Every step can optionally provide a `requires` field that Prefect will use to auto-install in the event that the step cannot be found in the current environment. Each step can also specify an `id` for the step which is used when referencing step outputs in later steps. The additional fields map directly onto Python keyword arguments to the step function.  Within a given section, steps always run in the order that they are provided within the `prefect.yaml` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every step can optionally provide a `requires` field that Prefect will use to auto-install in the event that the step cannot be found in the current environment. Each step can also specify an `id` for the step which is used when referencing step outputs in later steps. The additional fields map directly onto Python keyword arguments to the step function. Within a given section, steps always run in the order that they are provided within the `prefect.yaml` file.
```

pull:
  - prefect_aws.deployments.steps.pull_from_s3:
      requires: prefect-aws>=0.3.0
      bucket: my-bucket
      folder: "{{ push-code.folder }}"
      credentials: null
```

The bucket has been populated with our provided value (which also could have been provided with the `--field` flag); note that the `folder` property of the `push` step is a template - the `pull_from_s3` step outputs both a `bucket` value as well as a `folder` value that can be used to template downstream steps.  Doing this helps you keep your steps consistent across edits.

As discussed above, if you are using [blocks](/concepts/blocks/), the credentials section can be templated with a block reference for secure and dynamic credentials access:

```yaml
push:
  - prefect_aws.deployments.steps.push_to_s3:
      requires: prefect-aws>=0.3.0
      bucket: my-bucket
      folder: project-name
      credentials: "{{ prefect.blocks.aws-credentials.dev-credentials }}"
```

Anytime you run `prefect deploy`, this `push` section will be executed upon successful completion of your `build` section. For more information on the mechanics of steps, [see below](#deployment-mechanics).

### The Pull Action

> The pull section is the most important section within the `prefect.yaml` file as it contains instructions for preparing your flows for a deployment run.  These instructions will be executed each time a deployment created within this folder is run via a worker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pull section is the most important section within the `prefect.yaml` file as it contains instructions for preparing your flows for a deployment run. These instructions will be executed each time a deployment created within this folder is run via a worker.
```

---
description: Prefect deployments encapsulate a flow, allowing flow runs to be scheduled and triggered via API. Learn how to easily manage your code and deployments.
tags:
    - orchestration
    - deploy
    - CLI
    - flow runs
    - deployments
    - schedules
    - triggers
    - prefect.yaml
    - infrastructure
    - storage
    - work pool
    - worker
search:
  boost: 2
---
# The complete guide to `prefect deploy`

> In this guide we will dive deep into configuring a deployment for a worker and work pool using `prefect deploy`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will dive deep into configuring a deployment for a worker and work pool using `prefect deploy`.
```

        D("<div style='margin: 5px 10px 5px 5px;'>Deployment</div>"):::green
    end
    subgraph Remote Storage ["<div style='width: 160px; text-align: center; margin-top: 5px;'>Remote Storage</div>"]
        B("<div style='margin: 5px 6px 5px 5px;'>Flow</div>"):::yellow
    end
    subgraph Infrastructure ["<div style='width: 150px; text-align: center; margin-top: 5px;'>Infrastructure</div>"]
        G("<div style='margin: 5px 10px 5px 5px;'>Flow Run</div>"):::blue
    end

    A --> D
    D --> E("<div style='margin: 5px 10px 5px 5px;'>Worker</div>"):::red
    B -.-> E
    A -.-> B
    E -.-> G

    classDef gold fill:goldenrod,stroke:goldenrod,stroke-width:4px
    classDef yellow fill:gold,stroke:gold,stroke-width:4px
    classDef gray fill:lightgray,stroke:lightgray,stroke-width:4px
    classDef blue fill:blue,stroke:blue,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef green fill:green,stroke:green,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef red fill:red,stroke:red,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef dkgray fill:darkgray,stroke:darkgray,stroke-width:4px,color:white
```

When creating a deployment, we must answer *two* basic questions:

> - What instructions does a [worker](/concepts/work-pools/) need to set up an execution environment for our workflow? 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What instructions does a [worker](/concepts/work-pools/) need to set up an execution environment for our flow? 
```

> For example, a workflow may have Python requirements, unique Kubernetes settings, or Docker networking configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, a flow may have Python requirements, unique Kubernetes settings, or Docker networking configuration.
```

The `prefect.yaml` file contains deployment configuration for deployments created from this file, default instructions for how to build and push any necessary code artifacts (such as Docker images), and default instructions for pulling a deployment in remote execution environments (e.g., cloning a GitHub repository).

Any deployment configuration can be overridden via options available on the `prefect deploy` CLI command when creating a deployment. 

The base structure for `prefect.yaml` is as follows:

```yaml
# generic metadata
prefect-version: null
name: null

# preparation steps
build: null
push: null

# runtime steps
pull: null

# deployment configurations
deployments:
  - # base metadata
    name: null
    version: null
    tags: []
    description: null
    schedule: null

    # flow-specific fields
    entrypoint: null
    parameters: {}

    # infra-specific fields
    work_pool:
      name: null
      work_queue_name: null
      job_variables: {}
```

> The metadata fields are always pre-populated for you and are currently for bookkeeping purposes only.  The other sections are pre-populated based on recipe; if no recipe is provided, Prefect will attempt to guess an appropriate one based on local configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The metadata fields are always pre-populated for you. These fields are for bookkeeping purposes only.  The other sections are pre-populated based on recipe; if no recipe is provided, Prefect will attempt to guess an appropriate one based on local configuration.
```

    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.0
    image_name: my-repo/my-image
    tag: my-tag
    dockerfile: auto
    push: true
```

Once you've confirmed that these fields are set to their desired values, this step will automatically build a Docker image with the provided name and tag and push it to the repository referenced by the image name.  
[As the `prefect-docker` package documentation notes](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-docker/deployments/steps/#prefect_docker.deployments.steps.BuildDockerImageResult), this step produces a few fields that can optionally be used in future steps or within `prefect.yaml` as template values.  
It is best practice to use `{{ image }}` within `prefect.yaml` (specifically the work pool's job variables section) so that you don't risk having your build step and deployment specification get out of sync with hardcoded values.  

!!! note Some steps require Prefect integrations
    Note that in the build step example above, we relied on the `prefect-docker` package; in cases that deal with external services, additional packages are often required and will be auto-installed for you.

!!! tip "Pass output to downstream steps"

>     Each deployment action can be composed of multiple steps.  For example, if you wanted to build a Docker image tagged with the current commit hash, you could use the `run_shell_script` step and feed the output into the `build_docker_image` step:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Each deployment action can be composed of multiple steps. For example, if you wanted to build a Docker image tagged with the current commit hash, you could use the `run_shell_script` step and feed the output into the `build_docker_image` step:
```

---
description: Prefect deployments encapsulate a flow, allowing flow runs to be scheduled and triggered via API. Learn how to easily manage your code and deployments.
tags:
    - orchestration
    - deploy
    - CLI
    - flow runs
    - deployments
    - schedules
    - triggers
    - prefect.yaml
    - infrastructure
    - storage
    - work pool
    - worker
search:
  boost: 2
---

> # The complete guide to `prefect deploy`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Deploying flows to dynamically provisioned infrastructure
```

> # Deploying flows to dynamically provisioned infrastructure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Deploying flows to work pools and workers
```

    classDef green fill:green,stroke:green,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef red fill:red,stroke:red,stroke-width:4px,color:white
    classDef dkgray fill:darkgray,stroke:darkgray,stroke-width:4px,color:white
```

When creating a deployment, we must answer *two* basic questions:

- What instructions does a [worker](/concepts/work-pools/) need to set up an execution environment for our flow? 
For example, a flow may have Python requirements, unique Kubernetes settings, or Docker networking configuration.
- How should the flow code be accessed?

A deployment additionally enables you to:

- Schedule flow runs.
- Specify event triggers for flow runs.
- Assign a work queue name to delegate deployment flow runs to work queues.
- Assign one or more tags to organize your deployments and flow runs. You can use those tags as filters in the Prefect UI.
- Assign custom parameter values for flow runs based on the deployment.
- Create ad-hoc flow runs from the API or Prefect UI.
- Upload flow files to a defined storage location for retrieval at run time.
- Specify run time infrastructure for flow runs, such as Docker or Kubernetes configuration.

> ## Managing Deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Managing deployments
```

The base structure for `prefect.yaml` is as follows:

```yaml
# generic metadata
prefect-version: null
name: null

# preparation steps
build: null
push: null

# runtime steps
pull: null

# deployment configurations
deployments:
  - # base metadata
    name: null
    version: null
    tags: []
    description: null
    schedule: null

    # flow-specific fields
    entrypoint: null
    parameters: {}

    # infra-specific fields
    work_pool:
      name: null
      work_queue_name: null
      job_variables: {}
```

The metadata fields are always pre-populated for you. These fields are for bookkeeping purposes only.  The other sections are pre-populated based on recipe; if no recipe is provided, Prefect will attempt to guess an appropriate one based on local configuration.

You can create deployments via the CLI command `prefect deploy` without ever needing to alter the `deployments` section of your `prefect.yaml` file — the `prefect deploy` command will help in deployment creation via interactive prompts. The `prefect.yaml` file facilitates version-controlling your deployment configuration and managing multiple deployments.

> ### Deployment Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deployment actions
```

```yaml
section:
  - prefect_package.path.to.importable.step:
      id: "step-id" # optional
      requires: "pip-installable-package-spec" # optional
      kwarg1: value
      kwarg2: more-values
```

Every step can optionally provide a `requires` field that Prefect will use to auto-install in the event that the step cannot be found in the current environment. Each step can also specify an `id` for the step which is used when referencing step outputs in later steps. The additional fields map directly onto Python keyword arguments to the step function. Within a given section, steps always run in the order that they are provided within the `prefect.yaml` file.

!!! tip "Deployment Instruction Overrides"
    `build`, `push`, and `pull` sections can all be overridden on a per-deployment basis by defining `build`, `push`, and `pull` fields within a deployment definition in the `prefect.yaml` file.

    The `prefect deploy` command will use any `build`, `push`, or `pull` instructions provided in a deployment's definition in the `prefect.yaml` file.

    This capability is useful with multiple deployments that require different deployment instructions.

> ### The Build Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The build action
```

      credentials: null

pull:
  - prefect_aws.deployments.steps.pull_from_s3:
      requires: prefect-aws>=0.3.0
      bucket: my-bucket
      folder: "{{ push-code.folder }}"
      credentials: null
```

The bucket has been populated with our provided value (which also could have been provided with the `--field` flag); note that the `folder` property of the `push` step is a template - the `pull_from_s3` step outputs both a `bucket` value as well as a `folder` value that can be used to template downstream steps.  Doing this helps you keep your steps consistent across edits.

As discussed above, if you are using [blocks](/concepts/blocks/), the credentials section can be templated with a block reference for secure and dynamic credentials access:

```yaml
push:
  - prefect_aws.deployments.steps.push_to_s3:
      requires: prefect-aws>=0.3.0
      bucket: my-bucket
      folder: project-name
      credentials: "{{ prefect.blocks.aws-credentials.dev-credentials }}"
```

Anytime you run `prefect deploy`, this `push` section will be executed upon successful completion of your `build` section. For more information on the mechanics of steps, [see below](#deployment-mechanics).

> ### The Pull Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The pull action
```

    All [block and variable references](#templating-options) within your pull step will remain unresolved until runtime and will be pulled each time your deployment is run. This allows you to avoid storing sensitive information insecurely; it also allows you to manage certain types of configuration from the API and UI without having to rebuild your deployment every time.

Below is an example of how to use an existing `GitHubCredentials` block to clone a private GitHub repository:

```yaml
pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
        repository: https://github.com/org/repo.git
        credentials: "{{ prefect.blocks.github-credentials.my-credentials }}"
```

Alternatively, you can specify a `BitBucketCredentials` or `GitLabCredentials` block to clone from Bitbucket or GitLab. In lieu of a credentials block, you can also provide a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket token directly to the 'access_token` field. You can use a Secret block to do this securely:

```yaml
pull:
    - prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
        repository: https://bitbucket.org/org/repo.git
        access_token: "{{ prefect.blocks.secret.bitbucket-token }}"
```

> ### Utility Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Utility steps
```

```

Below is an example that retrieves an access token from a 3rd party Key Vault and uses it in a private clone step:

```yaml
pull:
- prefect.deployments.steps.run_shell_script:
    id: get-access-token
    script: az keyvault secret show --name <secret name> --vault-name <secret vault> --query "value" --output tsv
    stream_output: false
- prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
    repository: https://bitbucket.org/samples/deployments.git
    branch: master
    access_token: "{{ get-access-token.stdout }}"
```

You can also run custom steps by packaging them. In the example below, `retrieve_secrets` is a custom python module that has been packaged into the default working directory of a Docker image (which is /opt/prefect by default). 
`main` is the function entry point, which returns an access token (e.g. `return {"access_token": access_token}`) like the preceding example, but utilizing the Azure Python SDK for retrieval.

```yaml
- retrieve_secrets.main:
    id: get-access-token
- prefect.deployments.steps.git_clone:
    repository: https://bitbucket.org/samples/deployments.git
    branch: master
    access_token: '{{ get-access-token.access_token }}'
```

> ### Templating Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Templating options
```

```

This file has three deployment declarations, each referencing a different flow. Each deployment declaration has a unique `name` field and can be deployed individually by using the `--name` flag when deploying.

For example, to deploy `deployment-1` we would run:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --name deployment-1
```
</div>

To deploy multiple deployments you can provide multiple `--name` flags:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --name deployment-1 --name deployment-2
```
</div>

To deploy multiple deployments with the same name, you can prefix the deployment name with its flow name:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --name my_flow/deployment-1 --name my_other_flow/deployment-1
```
</div>

To deploy all deployments you can use the `--all` flag:

<div class="terminal">
```bash
$ prefect deploy --all
```
</div>

!!! note "CLI Options When Deploying Multiple Deployments"
    When deploying more than one deployment with a single `prefect deploy` command, any additional attributes provided via the CLI will be ignored.

    To provide overrides to a deployment via the CLI, you must deploy that deployment individually.
    

> ### Reusing Configuration Across Deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reusing configuration across deployments
```
